Function is actually a mathematical term,
right?
If you've done, Calculus before,
you'll probably remember seeing
things like f(x) = x + 2, right?
This is called a function in math.
If you haven't, then you can just ignore
me for the next second and tell this for
my people that have taken calculus before,
I did in high school.
This is called a function, right?
So you have x, that's a function of y.
Sorry, basically,
the f(x) is the same thing as y.
It's the same idea here in JavaScript,
that given some sort of input
you can get some sort of output.
And that's really all a function is,
given some input, it does a thing.
So, an example here is, I have this
function called addTwo that accepts
a number and
what it returns is that same number + 2.
I can then call addTwo anywhere,
and I can give it something, and
what do you think it's gonna do?
What is final answer here going to be?
7, right?
Cuz it's gonna take 5,
this number here is going to be 5.
It's gonna take 5, it's gonna add 2,
and it's gonna return that.
So whatever returns back here is
going to be final answer, Okay?
What happens if I do that
again underneath here?
OtherAnswer = addTwo with,
I don't know, 10.
And let's say, console.log(otherAnswer).
What do you think
the second log is gonna be?
So I've now made this reusable function,
this compacted little bit of code that's
usable over and over and over again.
This is a fundamental
concept of programming,
because now we don't
have to repeat ourselves.
We can make these like little utility
functions that can encapsulate
some piece of logic that we
can reuse over and over again.
Obviously, addTwo is super contrite,
right?
I could have just done here, right?
I could just put 5 + 2 here, right?
And that's the same thing.
But the concept here that I want you
to learn is that you can put logic into
these functions and reuse them.
So, this is called a parameter,
this number thing.
It's things that it accepts, right?
This here now has a bunch of parameters.
It has firstName, lastName,
honorific, and honorific is a title,
right, that someone has, like Doctor or
Lord or something like that.
And then a greeting.
And then it makes the string out of it,
right?
So it says, greeting, honorific, lastName.
I'm extremely pleased you could join us,
firstName.
I hope you enjoy your stay,
honorific, lastName.
So if I call it once here with Brian,
so Brian will go into firstName, right?
Holt will go into lastName.
Lord will go into the honorific, and
salutations will go into the greeting.
And I get salutations Lord Holt,
I'm extremely pleased you could join us,
Brian.
I hope you enjoy your stay, Lord Holt.
I can then call it again with
a different set of parameters.
Jack, Sparrow, Captain, and A-hoy.
So then it would be,
A-hoy Captain Sparrow,
I'm extremely pleased you could join us,
Jack!
I hope you enjoy your stay,
Captain Sparrow, right?
So hopefully, you're starting
to see some of the value here,
like I could have rewritten
this string multiple times out.
You can imagine this is a hotel bar that
welcomes you to stay at your hotel, and
it allows you to choose your greeting and
call yourself Captain, I guess.
But here, I'm encapsulating logics,
I don't have to repeat myself a lot.
I can kind of just make
this template function and
then reuse it over and over again.
So, something that you're probably
grasping here is the way that you
call a function or use a function.
But the terminology of using a function is
to call a function is these parentheses.
So when you see these parentheses
at the end of something,
your brain should be going off,
that's a function,
that's calling a function,
it's doing function things.
So, even in here, what is log?
Log is a function, right?
And we'll talk about the dot part here in
the next section, but that's what log is.
Log is just a function that's
available to us, Okay?
Let's try another one with
various different parameters,
myHomeCity, myHomeState,
and myHomeCountry.
And you can log out your home by saying,
myHomeCity, myHomeState, myHomeCountry.
That's gonna call this function
here with city, state, and country.
It's then going to log out.
Directly, you are from city,
state, country.
Again, I could do it one
more time here as well.
Oops, And
instead of this, we could put,
I don't know, you're from Olympia.
Instead of Washington, or
you can be from Minneapolis,
Minnesota, right?
Or we could go, as you are from,
I don't know, Bergamo,
which is also in the Lombardi in Italy,
right?
So, a couple things to
demonstrate here is,
notice these other functions
return things, right?
So this returns a string, right?
And then I use that string somewhere else.
I don't necessarily have
to return anything, right?
So this function doesn't return anything,
it just does some logging directly.
And then here, we're just showing
you that you can reuse it over and
over again with different parameters.
So I wanted to show you in JavaScripts,
there's a couple ways
of writing functions.
So far, you've been seeing
me use this one the most.
All of these are equally valid,
I'm fine with whatever you choose.
So, a function bark,
which does console.logwolf.
You can assign it to a variable.
So that's one of the things about
JavaScript, you can call functions first
class citizens in JavaScript,
which is not true of every language.
You don't really have to really
worry too much about that.
But I now have a variable called meow.
So for example,
if I say console.log(meow),
it actually just logs out
that meow is function, right?
Because I didn't put the parentheses here,
if I do this, well, even if I do that,
it's gonna be undefined because meow
doesn't return anything, right?
But notice,
it calls meow twice now, right?
To invoke a function,
even if it doesn't take any parameters,
you still have to put
empty parentheses there.
But now, meow is this function
that I can pass around and
use in different places, Okay?
So that's all this is doing here.
Is it's making a function, and
then it's assigning it to meow, and
then I can use that later.
This is the new way of doing functions
in JavaScript as of, again, 2015,
which doesn't feel like
it's that new to us, but
it's very new in terms of
the programming language.
Is this arrow function?
So, this is just an equal sign and
an angle bracket put together, so
it looks like an arrow
when they're put together.
And then my font just combines
them together to make
it actually look like an arrow.
This is just shorthand for
writing a function.
So for example, if chirp took
any parameters, this would be,
I don't know, birdNoise or
something like that, right?
So that you would put those parameters
here inside of the parentheses.
If it's empty parentheses, that just means
that it doesn't take any parameters,
just like these didn't
take any parameters.
Another question you might ask.
Do I put a space here or do I not?
Doesn't matter, personal preference.
You can notice I didn't put it here and
I did put it here.
Pure accident.
I didn't do it with any rhyme or reason.
You can see, for the most part,
I'm just writing code.
I don't really care where
that whitespace goes.
Some people are adamant, it must not go
there, and some people are adamant that it
must go there,
some people will put all of this together.
I would say that's pretty gross,
I really don't like that.
That's really compact and
makes it kind of hard for me to read.
I tend to put more whitespace because I
think it gives it some space to breathe,
makes it easier for my eyes to read.
We can see down here, you call them
all the same way, bark, meow, chirp,
they all work the same way.
>> Is the convention always cons for
shorthand functions?
>> Nope, you could totally do let here.
You could totally do var.
All those work.
It's a good question.
I just do const by default,
always, personal preference.
You can use let all the time, there's lots
of programmers that use let all the time.
I would just say it's incorrect
to do var all the time now,
just cuz it's arguably constant.
Yeah, constant are more useful.
The one thing I'll say is there are some
subtle differences between all three
of these,
kind of outside the scope of this course.
I would invite you to take some of
the more advanced JavaScript courses in
Fronted Masters,
if you're really interested in it.
But for now, just know that most
of the time that they're the same.